.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 William Light <wrl@illest.net>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd @MDOCDATE@
.Dt MONOMESERIAL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm monomeserial
.Nd an OSC router for monome devices
.Sh SYNPOSIS
.Nm monomeserial
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl d Ar device
.Op Fl s Ar port
.Op Fl a Ar port
.Op Fl o Ar host
.Op Fl r Ar rotation
.Op Ar prefix
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm monomeserial
is an implementation of the Monome OSC specification, running as a UDP OSC server and translating commands between OSC and the native Monome protocol.
.Pp
monome devices use an efficient serial protocol to communicate with the host system, but interacting with serial devices from higher level applications can be unwieldy.  OSC is a well supported protocol between multimedia applications and programming envionments, and an OSC router such as
.Nm monomeserial
bridges the gap.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h\&, Fl -help
display a help/usage message.
.It Fl d\&, Fl -device Ar DEVICE
specifies the path to the monome
.It Fl s\&, Fl -server-port Ar PORT
specifies the port on which
.Nm monomeserial
listens for incoming OSC messages
.It Fl a\&, Fl -application-port Ar PORT
specifies the port on which your application is listening for OSC messages
.It Fl o\&, Fl -application-host Ar HOST
specifies the host on which your application is running
.It Fl r\&, Fl -rotation Ar DEGREES
one of
.Ar 0, 90, 180
or
.Ar 270 .
.It Ar prefix
specifies the OSC path prefix.  defaults to /monome.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Bl -ohang
.It libmonome homepage
.Em http://illest.net/libmonome/
.It monome homepage
.Em http://monome.org/
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
libmonome was written by
.An William Light Aq wrl@illest.net
